---
title: Pangolin 
description: ""
date: 2025-08-16T11:12:17.318Z
preview: ""
draft: false
tags: []
categories:
    - computers
slug: pangolin
---

For a long time, I've used VPN solutions like WireGuard and Tailscale to get into my home network when not at home. They work really well, but recently I've been using [Pangolin](https://github.com/fosrl/pangolin) to easily access services I run at home from a web-browser.

It's a reverse proxy that also does authentication, so these sites running on my home network are protected with two-factor auth. It also handles getting SSL certs has handy plugins for geoblock to block traffic from another country (I'm in the US) and crowdsec for automatically blocking IPs that do suspicious things. You can also send timelimited links to friends if there's something you want share with them.

Things that I expose from my home network:

1. **Navidrome** -  My main motivation here was that my work laptop (rightfully) doesn't let me use my own VPN, so if I want to listen to my music using Navidrome at work I need a different solution. I've been buying mp3s to better support artists so getting access to my own server from anywhere is real handy. 
1. **Open WebUI** - I've been playing around with running small LLM models on my gaming PC (RTX 4070) and being able to access them easily from my phone/laptop is handy. 
1. **Zellij Web** - Zellij is a terminal multiplexer (like `screen` and `tmux`) that recently added the ability to share terminals over the web. This makes getting a terminal on my home Mac Mini easy.
1. **Jellyfin** - Share movies and shows with people, nice for watch parties. My wife digitized a bunch of old home movies and this made it easy to share those with folks. I'm not telling her grandpa to use Tailscale!
1. **code-server** - This is basically self-hosted VSCode running on my gaming PC, which makes doing development from my iPad a breeze. Plus my gaming PC is pretty fast, so easy on battery life. I'm actually writing this blog post using this using the FrontMatter plugin which integrates nice with Hugo and gives live preview.

It's a great piece of software!